many people shave every day because they
think this will encourage a beard or
mustache to grow faster
but shaving hair doesn't affect its
growth rate or thickness
a hair does get a hard tip after being
shaved
the tip seems coarse till the time when
it grows out again
during this time you feel as if the hair
is darker and thicker
lightning can strike the same place two
times it can even happen during one
thunderstorm
there's no scientific reason why a
lightning bolt wouldn't do that
but the probability of this happening is
too small
that's why people created that legend
everest is the highest mountain in the
world
not really the highest point in the
world above sea level
is indeed the peak of mount everest it's
more than 29
000 feet high but if you take into
account the distance from the foot to
the top
everest loses to volcano mauna kea
it's towering over the hawaiian islands
the mountain's top
reaches a height of 13 800 feet above
sea level
but its foot is under the water from
there to the peak
the distance is 32 800 feet
and this makes mauna kea the highest
mountain on the planet
the north star isn't the brightest
object in the night sky
there are about 50 other blazing stars
you can notice from earth
for example sirius also known as the dog
star
looks much brighter compared to the
north star
dogs don't release sweat to cool their
body their coat would keep the sweat
from evaporating
they regulate their body temperature
through rapid breathing
a dog opens its mouth and sticks out its
tongue to allow moisture
to evaporate faster and still these
animals do sweat
there are sweat glands on their paws but
the function of this sweat
is not to thermoregulate but to make the
paws stickier
this way they cling to the ground better
as for the moisture on the dog's nose it
doesn't only control body temperature
a wet nose captures the tiniest smell
particles much better
it's not bad for your health to crunch
your knuckles there's no proof that it
may lead to problems with your finger
bones
the sound you hear in the process is
made by a special organic fluid
when it bursts into the gaps between the
bones
when you crack your knuckles you put
pressure on your joints
under this pressure the liquid begins to
bubble and makes crunching sounds
but it does no harm whatsoever a coin
dropped from a skyscraper's roof won't
cause serious damage to anything
it can sting a little if it accidentally
falls on your head
but it won't hurt for one thing pennies
are lightweight
the coin's speed does grow with every
passing second during the fall but the
air resistance
increases too but still it's a bad idea
to try it out
better safe than sorry you take the last
slice of pizza
and accidentally drop it on the floor
you might think you have
five seconds before bacteria gets on it
but in fact
you don't have any time at all anything
that contacts any surface
immediately picks up some microbes and
you can't know what kind of bacteria
and how many of them are on your floor
right now if you haven't cleaned the
floor for weeks
there will be more bad bacteria on it
and the five second rule will never save
your pizza
people do not eat eight spiders a year
while sleeping
they don't eat them at all spiders avoid
people
they create webs and hunt in places that
are as far away from humans as possible
powerful vibrations signal danger to
little spiders
and people create such vibrations all
the time while breathing moving
and speaking our hearts are beating and
thus
vibrating too spiders will never visit
an area with so many risks intentionally
also a warm stream of air coming out of
your mouth and nose
is bound to scare a little spider away
bats do hunt their prey using
echolocation
but they're not blind they see the world
in black and white
because they don't have enough color
receptors and still
at night they see better than people
but during the day bats see almost
nothing
that's where the myth about these
animals being blind comes from
there's no scientific proof that
moonlight affects people's behavior
the moon has enough gravitational force
to influence seas and oceans
but it's not enough to change the way
the human brain works
the myth of how the moon affects people
is passed down from generation to
generation
for some people it works like a placebo
or rather
self-persuasion a person believes the
moon can have a really strong effect on
their mind
and this really happens you use
a mere five to ten percent of your brain
if you used 100
you could use telekinesis read other
people's minds have a perfect memory
and process information lightning fast
this is what both sci-fi movies
and one very common myth will have you
believe it has nothing to do with
reality though brain scans have shown
that the brain works at full capacity
even when it performs routine tasks
if the brain worked at only 10 to 20
percent you would hardly be able to
analyze information
use abstract thinking and communicate
with other people
a meteor flies through the sky like a
bright flash
and lands in a field when you see it the
space
object is still red hot and steaming
this is a myth when meteorites hit the
ground they're cold
sometimes they're even covered with
frost
when a meteorite first enters the
atmosphere it heats up
because of the air resistance then it
flies through the lower layers of the
atmosphere
there the temperatures are 10 times
lower than on the ground
that's why the meteorite cools down and
is again
frozen when it lands in a field chewing
gum won't stay inside your stomach for
seven years if you accidentally swallow
it
but sweeteners and flavorings in the gum
can indeed cause an upset stomach
in any case try not to swallow gum
because
it won't do your body any good ostriches
never hide their heads in the sand out
of fear
this tactic wouldn't help them to
protect themselves from other animals
anyway
this myth appeared because people
usually see an ostrich
bending its head down toward the ground
from a distance
that's why it seems that the head is
hidden in the sand
in reality these birds make small holes
and use them as nests for their eggs
several times a day a bird may stick its
head into this small burrow
to turn the eggs over this helps with
better heat distribution
also when ostriches feel they're in
danger they either run away
or fight it's a myth that goldfish
forget
everything that happens to them after a
few minutes they have a good memory
simple experiments that involved feeding
these fish proved it
goldfish can not only store information
for several months
but also recall it after some time has
passed
not bad for a creature with a tiny brain
which is almost
four hundred thousand times smaller than
a human's the sahara
isn't the biggest desert in the world it
takes second place
its area is almost half the area of cold
antarctica dunes and heat are not the
main features of a desert
it's defined by the amount of
precipitation
and in antarctica it's just as scarce as
in the sahara
most of this area is blanketed in
wind-carved ice fields
and rocky mountains covered with
glaciers it hardly ever rains there
the sugar that natural products contain
is the same as the sugar
in candies honey fruit and a granola bar
affect your body in a similar way as
high sucrose foods
the only difference is that there's more
sugar in sweets